- [https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/description/](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/description/)
- We can only buy and sell the stock for **once**.
- Brute Force: Use 2 nested loops to enumerate all possible combinations of 2 numbers and get the one with the max increase.

# Dynamic Programming

1. Definition: dp array has size n * 2. `dp[i][0]` means the max profit we can get when we **hold the stock.** Note that holding the stock doesn’t mean we have to buy the stock at `i` . We may also buy it before `i` . `dp[i][1]` means the max amount we can get when we **don’t hold the stock.** Similarly, we don’t have to sell the stock at `i`.
2. Recurrence relation
    1. `dp[i][0] = max(dp[i - 1][0], -prices[i]);` . `dp[i-1][0]` means we buy the stock before i. `-prices[i]` means we buy the stock at `i`. Since we can buy the stock once in this problem, the money in our hand must be 0 when we buy the stock.
    2. `dp[i][1] = max(dp[i - 1][1], dp[i - 1][0] + prices[i]);` . `dp[i - 1][1]` means we sell the stock before i. `dp[i - 1][0] + prices[i]` means we sell the stock at `i` from the state that we hold the stock.
    3. At the end, we should return `dp[n - 1][1]` . We cannot return the middle state of holding the stock, so not `dp[n - 1][0]` . Although we don’t have to do one transaction, the max profit of doing 1 transaction ≥ doing 0 transaction. Say we buy and sell the stock on the same day. The profit (0) is already the max of doing 0 transaction.
3. Initialization: `dp[0][0] = -prices[0];` . We must buy the stock to hold the stock at the start. `dp[0][1] = 0;` We can only buy the stock and sell it at the start point to ensure we don’t hold the stock.
4. Traversal Order: left to right.

```C++
class Solution {
public:
    int maxProfit(vector<int>& prices) {
        int n = prices.size();
        vector<vector<int>> dp(n, vector<int>(2));
        dp[0][0] = -prices[0];
        dp[0][1] = 0;
        for(int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
            dp[i][0] = max(dp[i - 1][0], -prices[i]);
            dp[i][1] = max(dp[i - 1][1], dp[i - 1][0] + prices[i]);
        }
        return dp[n - 1][1];
    }
};
```